it's freezing today and while we're
heading to your garage what are we doing
on fast lane daily segment the road
system anyway today we're gonna actually
look at a new application actually it's
not quite knit enough not that new but
it's an application that I think we care
about because we're car guys it's called
a rev fuel mapping ECU engine management
clearing error codes that's right this
is an app for that
that's an app for that what's it called
called rev how much is it it's like 20
bucks from the App Store does it need
like the bad develop that I think tool
yes but it's it uses Wi-Fi so you
actually don't need to plug it in and
the beauty how much is this cable car
hundred bucks with the Wi-Fi connected
yes and I want this I I do too and
that's why I bought it but the thing
that's actually great about this whole
little package is that it can be used
while you're driving to look at how your
car's performing and you can compare
that data to other cars on the road that
doesn't sound safe
this episode Vaseline daily is brought
to you by Auto wall art turn your
favorite automotive photo into a work of
canvas art go to Auto wall art well this
is 144a
and 144a is generally in the secret
location known as a I design today it's
in the garage below my apartment I love
your little sticker yeah that's plain
second okay so what we have here is
actually the the just a normal high pot
with the rev software Rev is kind of the
the most basic form of I guess you could
still call it like telemetry Diagnostics
oh yeah exactly and then here is
actually the device that you need it's a
a Wi-Fi connection so basically it
transmits from your ECU with a standard
OBT OB will be d2 obd2 port and then you
can connect to it through your ipod with
a past password password yes
so like Knight Rider you could just
drive my other cars otherwise no no and
you could you need a password but how
much does this cable cost about $100 you
remember my old Audi s4 you're the but
before you have to be fun it was like a
$500 a bag - yeah and so the laptop is
bulky there was also condemned pc-based
need a serial port rs-232 yeah so this
is a huge step forward very very good
support and and the thing you have to
remember though is that this only works
on cars built after 2000 I guess there
was a limitation of and this is a 2008
that works perfectly okay
okay
hora is running so that's a Wi-Fi signal
that's now being transmitted what we've
done here is we've connected the the
Kiwi wireless port we've connected via
Wi-Fi on the iPod to the car so now what
we can have is full access to the car's
ECU and just so I'm clear I can have
this running and while I'm driving it
exactly any time and the the range of
what you can do you can look at any data
that coast of the ECU data including in
intake temperature no one driving is
going to understand that let's go
through RPMs throttle position speed and
any of the fuel timing Oh even even to
the engine code any information that
goes to the ECU even even tire pressure
management you can get through this
program now what we have here is we have
it we can't go driving right now but we
have a track from the last the drive
from Daytona yes yes you don't you see I
did a zero to sixty will you
full throttle is that speed and left
speed isn't good yeah so you've got
speeds and gray speeds in green blue is
a throttle position so 100% throttle
position some flat-out first gear second
gear third gear different altitudes have
different effects on engines mm-hmm on
temperature temperature affects engine
performance so you have cars sold in you
know Colorado have suddenly different
ECU maps now logically like we learned
from you know CVT infinite horario
transmissions logically there should be
multiple different maps for your engine
ECU for performance for fuel economy
hybrid cars like preists Prius owners
there's have hacked leaving their ECU's
for better fuel economy exactly
logically a manufacturer should tie
together location data like what TomTom
has been doing with performance data
like this such that you know you might
often an engine might have 5 10 or 20
different ECU maps that you can change
that you can change you can change it
yourself or you can set default so based
on temperature seasonality location
altitude your car is constantly running
different Maps appropriate for it having
this conglomerate of information from
all these different users providing the
best information as to how the car
should be reacting creating a map on
that and then importing that into your
car for not only your location but
you're driving you're driving method as
far as as devices which include maryann
hardware software or closed systems that
are completely primitive by the essence
of any other device that we buy you
can't log in and change settings yeah
you can press a sport button yeah but
think about that you
even if you get a BMW with Groot with
Google installed you're restricted to
going through the Google BMW dot you
know yes yes and you know the reason we
are at this point is because of product
liability loss exact however if
manufacturers would collaborate with the
tom-toms and dashes and revs of the
world to allow us to do things like this
they would open up a universe of
possibilities and income the opposite of
how music companies are fair music
companies ignored music sharing
technology you know if manufacturers
ignore engine performance and location
technology and the villages share it
then they are going to lose the
opportunity that TomTom Rev and Trapster
already see well I think that's all
we've got time for today
Alex cool stuff man Road Testament Road
Testament great day tomorrow fast lane
daily who we have Leah of course we
operate with what to show please
shakedown he's looking over the Formula
one cars of 2010 it's gonna be an
amazing scene I look forward to that
we're no car looks
you